Hello and welcome back to the course on deep learning.
Today we're kicking off this section for recurrent neural networks and I'm very excited about this section.
There's going to be quite some interesting tutorials.
This is a one of the most advanced algorithms that exists in the world of supervised deep learning.
So let's get started.
We have our little breakdown of supervised versus unsupervised Deep Learning branches.
And here we've got artificial neural networks which we've already talked about.
We've already talked about convolution all neural networks as well.
And today we're talking about recurrent neural networks.
So they're just so that we see where we are in the big picture of things slowly getting to the unsupervised
part of the course.
But nevertheless that's focused on are announced today.
All right.
So now that we know where we are on the map in terms of a list let's have a look where we are on the
map in terms of the human brain.
And so why are we doing this.
Why are we looking at the human brain as as if it's a map of the world.
Well the reason for that is the whole concept behind deep learning is to try mimic the human brain and
get kind of similar functions as a human human brain has and leverage the things that evolution has
already developed for us.
And I thought it'd be pretty cool if we can somehow link the different branches of deep learning that
we've discussed.
So we've talked about or the algorithms that we discussed we've talked about AFN CNN and we're talking
about RNA and if we could link those to certain parts of the human brain and if if it would make sense.
So let's have a look here.
We've got the brain the human brain has got three parts so we've got the cerebrum which has all of this
colored part.
Then we've got the cerebellum which is underneath there and that's the little brain actually looked
it up in Latin that does mean little brain.
How funny is that.
And we've already looked at a section of the cerebellum in the pilot we talk about and ends that orange
that big room the big orange picture where we saw all of those little neurons that we were trying to
kind of gauge how many there are there.
There's millions of neurons in the brain.
And then we've got the brain stem over here which connects the brain to the organs and heart arms and
legs and so on and so that's how the brain.
Oh those are the main three parts of the brain.
Now the Siri broom has four lobes and they're colored in here.
So it's got the frontal lobe.
It's got the temporal lobe.
It's got the parietal lobe and it's got the exceptional lobe and.
Now how do we link these.
Right.
So we've got a and then we've already discussed CNN and Ireland.
And the interesting with the horizontal probably was to start off with and then because what is the
main advantage of it.
Well the main advantage the main breakthrough in and ends is apart from the back propagation algorithm
which kind of applies to all of them.
And in fact whatever applies Gene and applies to everything here.
But for me I think the main thing about an ends and it wouldn't even exist without thing saying this
whole concept of deploring when you and exist are the weights the fact that a man's can learn through
prior experience or through prior epochs and prior observations that's extremely valuable.
And so what do those those weights represent.
And moreover the weights of course are present across all neurons in the brain but we're going to try
to take away the main philosophical underlying notion there and that is that weights represent long
term memory that once you run you in an end and you've trained it you can switch it off you can come
back later It's trained up you know the weights and so whatever inputs you put into it it will process
it the same way as it would yesterday as it will tomorrow as it will the day after.
So the weights are long term memory of a neural network and that's why weights or the airmen go into
temporal lobe again and the weights exist across the whole brain.
But philosophically and Ns are a start to deep learning and they represent long term memory.
So we're going to put them in the temporal lobe because the temporal lobe lobe is responsible for long
term memory Hence it's called the temporal lobe meaning it that lasts things lost through time in their
brain is very complex and of course other parts also responsible for memory as well.
But we're going to simplify things and say an ad is like the temporal lobe then CNN is much easier it's
vision recognition of images and objects and so on.
So that's a super low.
And today we're talking about R and ends and as you'll find out R and ends are like short term memory
they can remember things that just happened in the previous couple of observations and apply that knowledge
in that going forward.
Giving away so much already.
You're right you're pretty much no there.
So this tutorial but nevertheless.
So that's the frontal lobe that's where we have a lot of the short term memory and of course the frontal
lobe also like a quick breakdown of the frontal lobe also responds it's responsible for personality
behavior motor cortex working memory.
And like lots of other things but in our purposes the main thing that we're looking out for is the short
term memory by the way if you're interested.
Temporal lobe is the temporal lobe is concerned with cognition memory.
That's our long term memory parietal lobe is and these are from wikipedia the parietal lobe is responsible
for sensation and perception and constructing a spatial coordination system to represent the world around
us.
And we are yet to create a neural network which would fit into that category and occipital is vision.
All right.
So there we go a bit of neuroscience so let's move on to our favorite neural networks.
So here we've got a simple artificial neural network three inputs to outputs one and there.
What does a r an end do.
How do we represent this as how do we represent or turn this into an R in it.
Well we squash it we squash it all together.
So there is still there but we think of it as if we're looking from underneath for from underneath this
neural network.
So we're looking at a new dimension.
Right.
So we're looking it's still there it's just flat enough.
We're looking at it we're adding a new dimension to all of this but remember that those neurons the
whole network is still there.
Nothing change.
We just a question for our purposes then to simplify things which is going to change these multiple
hours into two.
Then we're gonna twist this whole thing make it vertical because that's the standard representation
then in terms of neural networks were going to color them instead of green.
We're going to color the hidden layers in blue.
And there we go and we're gonna add this line.
And what does that line do.
Well that line is the temporal loop and this is an old school representation of our ends and basically
means that this hidden layer not only gives an output but also feeds back into itself.
So again this is an optical representation.
So the common kind of approach is now to unwind this or unroll this temporal loop and represent and
ends in the following manner like that so you can see that again.
Don't forget that we've got we've got lots of these things happening right.
So you're looking in a new dimension that the layers are actually still there they're still there but
we're just not focusing on them.
We just remember that each one of these circles is not a one you're on it's a whole layer of neurons.
And so what is happening is you've got inputs coming into the neurons.
Then you've got outputs but also the neurons are connecting to themselves through time.
So that's a whole concept that they have some sort of memory short term memory that they remember what
was in that neuron just previously or.
And then the one before they'd remember or before that it used to remember what was previous.
And that allows them to pass information onto themselves in the future and analyze things kind of like
when you're you know when you're watching this course.
Right.
So it would be very sad if you could not remember what was happening in the previous tutorial.
Even if we break time down discreetly through not by seconds but like continuously by seconds by discretely
through tutorials and we say like every moment in time as a new tutorial it would be very sad if you
did not remember what we had in the previous tutorial or in the previous section or in the previous
part of the course.
Right because then this whole new recurring neural networks part wouldn't makes any sense.
You wouldn't have memory of what a neuron is what an activation function is.
But because you do remember those things you can understand this.
And same thing here.
So how why would we deprive a artificial construct which is supposed to be a synthetic human brain or
like mimicking the human brain why would be deprived of something so powerful as short term memory long
term memory is great but short term memory is so powerful why would we not give it that opportunity
and that's where recurrent neural networks come in.
That's the gap that they fill it.
And so let's have a look at a couple examples.
So a huge shout out to the capacity blog capacity I'd get hub that I owe some of these examples from
here.
So one to many relationship this is when you have one input and have multiple outputs.
Example of this is an image where a computer describes the image you have one input the image and that
would go through a CNN and then would be fed into an R.A. and then the computer would come up with words
to describe the image.
And this is an actual computer describing image.
How accurate is that black and white dog jumps over a bar.
This is a computer looked at this image and it is like up it's a black and white dot based on what it's
previously learned.
You know the long term memory allowed it to come up with weights and come up with certain feature feature
feature recognition system and come up with the filters come up with everything that is required in
a CNN and then the orange and allows it to make sense out of the sentence.
Right.
So you can see that the sentence actually flows you know there's a there's an and there's a link over
the bar and then there's like a verb there's a noun and so on.
So basically it allows the irony is what allows it to put a sentence together in this case then a many
to one word.
An example would be a sentiment analysis.
So when you have a lot of text and from that text you kind of need to gauge is it other people.
Is this like a positive comment or is it a negative common what what's the chance that it's positive
or how positive or how negative is that common.
And you've got an example here as well.
Again there's lots of other different examples these are just some.
Then we've got many too many.
For instance I wanted to show you this one.
So here we've got an example of Google translator and I don't know if Google translator users are Anons
or not.
I know that they have very sophisticated deep learning and Google mind and I've heard that they've used
that in their Android systems and so on.
I'm not sure if they use our hands here or not.
But the concept through remains.
So if I say here from English to check I say I am a boy who likes to learn a Sam look to gratitude.
Right.
And basically in other languages in some other languages it is important what's gender you're a person
is.
Right.
So here a boy is male.
So that's why he's got category.
Right.
And if you see if I change this to girl in English the other words don't change but in check the other
words change you Sam Holcomb.
Tara a rather sell it so you can see right away.
Now it's not a theory right.
It's Tara meaning that these words they depend on the gender of this word Hawker and a whole car is
a girl and therefore this becomes Tara rather.
And again I don't know if Google Translate is our friend and I'm going to comment on that but basically
the concept is the same that you need short term information about the previous word in order to translate
the next word right.
You can't just translate word by word.
It's just a simple example.
Of course like it makes to make a sentence makes sense.
You didn't do need a information about the prisoners but like a very visual example we have here is
at the at the least you need to know the gender of this word to in order to translate the following
words for the sentence to make sense and that's where our own ends have power because they have short
term memory and they can do these things.
So there we go that's a many to many you put in lots of words and then you get lots of words out that
translation and of course not every example has to be related to text or images.
There can be lots and lots of different implications of our nouns for instance many many you can use
our own ends to subtitle movies.
Meaning that you can have running subtitles so basically or describe every single frame in a movie and
that is something you can simply do with a CNN or other neural networks because if you're watching a
movie you need context about what happened previously to describe what's happening now and so you need
that short term memory.
You can't just run through a million movies and kind of understand the whole plot that is going to happen
you need short term memory of the plot to be able to comment on every single frame.
And speaking of movies today we don't have additional reading to do.
We have additional watching so a movie called some spring in 2016 directed by Oscar Sharpe and Scott.
You might know this actor Thomas middle age from TV show Silicon Valley and this movie was entirely
written by Benjamin who is a Arnon and Ellis team to be specific so I'm going to show you this movie
now.
Well I'm not gonna play it.
I'm doing a show which find it so unique because Ars Technica.
It's only nine minutes long.
I highly recommend it.
I've seen it twice.
It's so it's so fun.
Like you will find that a couple of things.
There's a great description here as well so it's worth reading through it there's actually an interview
Benjamin and he actually gave himself the name of Benjamin.
That's where they call him Benjamin.
Is this really cool to see these things and what you'll find about the movie is the acting is amazing
just amazing like I had shivers down my spine towards and it got in the top 10 in London in the Loddon
sci fi in the sci fi London Festival and then what you'll find is that Benjamin is able to construct
sentences which kind of like makes sense for the most part which is good but what he lacks is kind of
the bigger picture where he cannot come up with like a plot that constantly makes sense even though
even though the actors do a great job about putting it together and it does look amazing in the end
but you will notice and kind of look out for this separate when you're watching separate the sentences
and you'll see that each sentence on its own more or less 90 percent the time makes sense.
But overall he cannot properly link sentence together and that's that's the next step for iron ends
where you know this is still quite a new technology or it's only picking up recently so it'll be developed
very soon and maybe when you're watching this tutorial you're laughing in then in the future five years
from now you're laughing to yourself and you're saying oh oh we've already passed that milestone and
probably we will very soon but this is where things are now and highly recommend checking this out only
nine minutes long.
So there we go.
That's what our ends are.
In a nutshell and in the next trial we will continue digging deeper.
I look forward to seeing next time.
Until then enjoy deep learning.